# F20GA

Renders Folder

Models:
The coursework consists of total 4 models with 2 complex and 2 simple models. All of the models were modelled manually without any models imported to save memory space and demonstrate modelling proficiency.

Complex models-
1. Aeroplane - The aeroplane was modelled after a cessna areoplane. The modelling process consisted of looking at images and following youtube tutorials of aeroplane modelling to get proper aerodynamic design of the aeroplane. The plane modelling was started with a simple circle which was filled, extruded and scaled to form the body of the plane model. The different parts of the plane model were made by duplicating certain sections, edge sliding and then extruding out the new section from the body. Mirror modifier was used on certain sections like the wings and back wings. The plane body was set as the parent of the different parts of the plane model observable in the collection window, in order to be able to move and scale the model as a whole for the main scene set up.
The aeroplane model consists of three different materials, which are White Paint, Blue Paint and Plane Glass. For all 3 of these materials, the principled BSDF node was used. White Paint and Blue Paint are similar in material properties with the main difference being the white and blue colours. The metallic property was set high while the roughness property was set low to give a smooth metallic texture which would be expected of an aeroplane. This also gave the aeroplane the shine of a brand new paint job, which I personally prefer on the model. For the plane glass, the colour was set to black for the effect of a black tint and the roughness was set very low to give the reflective texture of glass.  

2. Dino - The dinosaur model was modelled after a stegasaurus. The modelling process consisted of using blueprint images and following youtube tutorials to get the proper shape of the dinosaur. The blueprint image was hidden after the modelling process was complete. The model was made by adding a simple plane and then extruding and scaling the vertices to match the body of the dinosaur in the blueprint. Mirror modifier was used on this 2d shape with clipping enabled, and then the shape was extruded to meet at the centre to form a 3d body. Loop cut tool was used to add more geometry and slide the edges to give a better, rounded look to the body. The legs were made by deleting faces where the legs would be. The empty faces were turned into circles by selecting the edges of the empty face and using circle loop tool on them. The edges were then extruded, rotated and scaled according to the blueprint image to get the shape right. For the scales, from the side view, a single vertex was added and then extruded and joined to form the shape of the stegasaur's scale. The single scale was then duplicated, scaled and placed around the body of the dino. The spikes on the tail were made similary by extruding a single vertex and then adding a skin and mirror modifier. The geometry of the spikes were then scaled accordingly to give it a sharp shape. The body was set as the parent of the spikes, in order to be able to move and scale the model as a whole for the main scene set up. BSDF nodes were used for both the materials of the body and scales. The body and scales were given high roughness and metallic properties. The body was given a darkish green colour and the scales were given a darkish maroon colour.

Simple models-

3. Terrain - The terrain consists of a simple plane and a runway for the plane. For the main terrain, a simple plane was added and scaled according to the main scene set up. For the runway however, another plane was added, scaled and placed on the main terrain to form the runway. An extra plane was added to form the guidelines on the runway. For the runway guidelines, the plane was scaled down according to the main runway. The array modifier was then used on the guideline plane to spread the guidelines evenly across the entire length of the runway. For the entire ground setup, 3 materials were used. All 3 materials used the principled BSDF nodes. The main ground plane was given a darkish greencolour and the roughness property was set high to avoid giving a reflective texture. The runway plane was given a darkish grey colour with the roughness property set high, and the metallic property set to around 0.500 to give a a more realistic look. The runway guideline plane was given a darkish yellow colour with high roughness to give a somewhat old and faded look to the paint of the guidelines. 

4. Trees - The trees were modelled after normal branched trees and cherry blossom trees. Although the normal trees were good enough, I modelled the cherry blossom tree as well since I personally find the cherry blossom season in tokyo extremly pretty. For the modelling process, a simple plane was added and the vertices merged at centre. I then extruded the point to form the trunk, branches and give the main shape of the tree. I then used the skin modifier on the model to give it thickness which was scaled around the points accordingly to form the shape. An icosphere was added, duplicated and moved to the branches to form the leaves of the tree. The icospheres were edited using proportional editing to give them a varied look.
For the materials, 2 materials were used for the trunk and leaves. The trunk has a simple BSDF node with a dark brown colour. However, for the leaves, object info, colour ramp and principled bsdf nodes were used. The random property of the object info node was connected to the colour ramp node. This assigned random colours from the set colours of the colour ramp to the icoshperes. This gave a varied look to each instance of the tree. This helped the main scene setup by giving the effect of more realistic looking trees which are varied and avoided making them looking uniform.

Main Scene Setup and Settings:
For the final image render, the camera was moved and placed accordingly by using the lock camera to viewport feature in blender. However, some of the models at the back in the camera frame were getting clipped. The clipping end setting in the camera settings had to be increased accordingly to fix this issue. For rendering the final image, the cycles engine was used since it gives a more accurate image in relation to the light sources. Under system in the preferences settings, the cycles render devices was switched from none to CUDA and the dedicated gpu was selected under the list of devices. The device in the render settings was switched to GPU compute from CPU to make use of the dedicated GPU of the computer and to get faster renders.
The scene comprises of an aeroplane trying to takeoff and escape from the dinosaurs that have escaped from a 'Jurassic Park'
The aeroplane model is placed on the runway, at the centre of the camera frame as the primary focus of the shot. The dinosaur models are placed behind the aeroplane, coming out of the forest, facing towards the aeroplane. The normal tree models were placed around the runway in the camera frame to give the effect of a forest and the cherry blossom tree models are placed alongside the runway for beautification of the shot. The scene is set at night with the light sources in the scene coming from point lights which were placed alongside the runway as runway lights. This kind of lighting also puts emphasis on the aeroplane as prey and on the dinosaurs as predators lurking in the shadows. 