# F20GA

Animation Folder

Workflow:
To recreate the scene in unreal engine 5, while in Blender, I used ctrl + J on multiple models in the main scene model to form a single mesh for those particular models and then I exported the main scene model as a .fbx file. However, while importing the model into unreal, there were several issues. The models were not being imported because of the smoothing group information error. To fix this, while exporting the .fbx file from blender, under the export settings, under geometry, I changed the setting from normals only to faces for the smoothing setting. After this, I was able to successfully import the models into unreal engine, however with multiple issues. Some of the faces of my plane model looked transparent from certain angles. To fix this I went back to blender, ticked the face orientation box, under the viewport overlays settings. This enabled me to check whether the orientation of the faces of my models were correct or not. If the faces were blue, then they were facing the right way, however if they were red, then they were facing the wrong way. Several faces of the plane model were red, while some others were blue. To fix this, I manually went into edit mode for each part and selected the red faces. Then under mesh settings, under normals, I selected the flip normals option. After all of the faces turned blue, I exported the model again. I faced the same issue with the dinosaur model as well, with the scales on the body of the dinosaur. However, as the scales were actually one sided, flipping the side would just result in the scale turning red from the other side. In order to get around this issue, the scene was shot from the blue side of the dinosaurs. Another issue was that the icospheres of the tree model lost their colour and turned plain white. I believe, this was because I was using various different nodes for the leaf material that was assigned to the icospeheres. To fix this, I changed the colour of the material of the cherry blossom tree to reddish pink and the normal tree to darkish green in unreal itself. Unreal does not have a colour ramp node, which is why I was not able to give the same exact look to the tree models that was visible in blender. 

The plane models had the proper colours but they did not have proper material properties. To fix this, I manually edited the material properties in unreal, and changed the roughness, specular, and metallic properties to get the same look that I was going for in blender. Another issue was that the pivot origin of the models were all located at the centre of the world origin. This would cause difficulties in moving the imported models, if the models were far away from that point. To fix this, I manually shifted the pivot point of the object that I wanted to move. I did this by pressing alt and holding middle mouse button to move the pivot point closer to the object that I want to move. After that, I right clicked on the pivot and choose the set as pivot offset option to make the change permanent for that object. Another issue was that the ground would overlap with the runway. To fix this, I simply moved the runway model on the z-axis, and placed it above the ground. I manually added point lights for the runwayway lights in order to recreate the scene with similar lighting. By pressing ctrl and 'L' on the keyboard, I was able to control the direction of the sunlight in the scene. I set the lighting to resemble dusk, and not pitch black night, in order to make the dinosaurs slightly visible and also to give a good background to the sky.

Animation:
My main objective for the animation was to make the plane takeoff. The sequencer in unreal was used for the camera and aeroplane animation. In the sequencer, I locked the cinecamera actor to my viewport and manually placed the camera where I wanted to start
the video and set a key frame there. I did this at several points in the scene, to traverse the flythrough camera around the scene and finally focus on the aeroplane. Using keyframes, I was able to get a panning shot of the scene with the outline of the dinosaurs visible in the dark shadows of the forest. For the plane's takeoff animation, I added the plane body as an actor to the sequencer. I set a keyframe at the starting location of the aircraft, and then another at the end of the runway. I placed the plane in the sky along it's take off path and set another keyframe at that location. In the curve editor, the curve for the aeroplane was changed from defualt to linear. This gave the aircraft animation, the proper look of an aircraft taking off.

Output:
The final video consists of three shots. The first shot contains the flythrough camera panning around the scene. For the second shot, the camera was placed on the runway, with the aeroplane moving towards the camera. The third shot consists of the camera facing down the runway and the aeroplane finally taking off into the sky. The framing of the scene was done in such a way to give viewers a mysterious feel of the dinosaurs looming in the dark of the forest. The camera settings were kept as default. For the rendering settings, the video output format was .avi, the resolution was kept as 1920 x 1080p (16:9), and the compression quality was set to 75%. This gave a high quality but heavily sized video output. The initial video was sized around 110mb. In order to convert the video format into a modern format like .mp4, I used a free video editing software called 'OpenShot Video Editor'. I put the video into the software and for the output settings chose 1280 x 720p resoulution, 30fps, MP4(h.264), High quality. My final output video was sized at around 5mb.
